# RedTrack in 2024: Ad tracking & Automation Solution to Scale with.

Hi! This is Vlad, CEO of RedTrack, and I wanted to publish a quick message as this year ends and we are getting ready to step in 2024.

In 2023, we helped track over 50M ads, and we hope to multiply these results in 2024. So keep testing your creatives; we are here to guard the performance from cost spikes, and we are also here to help you invest your budget towards the winning campaigns.
RedTrack is a product created with a strong vision to make media-buyers' lives easier.
We help deliver the most accurate performance data and save you from manual optimization tasks by providing advanced automation in the same platform. A one-stop shop where you can see accurate ad results, prevent ad budget waste, and maximize your revenue by scaling.

In 2024, we will continue proving our hyper-accuracy in ad tracking, but we will also continue expanding our automation flank to save you more and more hours on optimization tasks.

But there is one more point worth mentioning.

In the fast-paced world of affiliate marketing, where change is constant and unexpected turns of events is the norm, we at RedTrack want to be your island of stability and predictability.


RedTrack’s Commitment to Transparent and Predictable Pricing in 2024
At the core of our vision is a commitment to providing you, our users, with excellent solutions and predictable cost of ownership, ensuring that you can maximize affiliate marketing success without worrying about hidden fees or unexpected price spikes.

At RedTrack, we understand the importance of budgeting and planning for the future.

As a testament to this commitment (and answering many questions you guys asked lately), we confirm that there will be no price increases for RedTrack affiliate subscriptions and cost update frequencies add-ons in 2024. 

To provide our customers with even greater cost savings, we remind that annual deals allow users to lock in their subscriptions at a lower cost of ownership. This means that you can confidently plan marketing budgets, knowing that your expenses will remain consistent and predictable.
Media buyers rely on RedTrack to navigate the complex landscape of affiliate marketing, and we aim to empower you with the tools and stability needed for long-term success.
Best, 
Vlad 