# August-October 2023


➲ Ads manager: 




Acquisition report tab was renamed into Ads manager.



Added the possibility of sorting out the columns.



Removed the "don't show costs" toggle.




➲ Traffic channels: added feature to change the depth of cost update. Follow this guide for details on the cost auto-update feature.



➲ Campaign report: 




Added a tooltip for grouping by hours. It shows correct data only in the account timezone. 



Added a new column "Domain" which depicts the custom tracking domain used for a campaign.




➲ Multi-user access feature: added the possibility to search for an object; changed the logic of adding objects for multiaccess. Follow this guide for details on the multi-user access feature.



➲ Reports section: 




Added a new tab (report subtype) "IP Report" which serves for grouping the data by IP.



Added the possibility of aligning the data in the tables under the columns as per user needs (compact, standard, comfortable).




➲ Columns: 




Added the possibility for the user to save the default set of columns.



Added the button to select and cancel the columns in bulk.



Added the "Profit" column to the set of default columns.




➲ Rules: added metrics Total CPA, default type CPA, custom type CPA, ROAS, ROAS%, EPC, CR %, CPC, &nbsp;LP CTR% to the Add Frequency "Last" type of rule.



➲ Landing page form UI was updated.



➲ Campaigns: added new field "Final URL suffix parameters" for campaigns with Google Ads traffic channel.



➲ Logs: 




Added an "Order" column to the Logs by Conversions. It contains order numbers from Shopify.



Added a "Campaign ID" column to the Logs by Conversions and Clicks.




➲ API postbacks: added new column "Destination". It shows the data on conversions sent by RT  from different sources to the pixel if a Facebook pixel is added at the offer level.



➲ Shopify: added a new conversion type “BuyNow”.



➲ Publisher panel: 




Added 2 more grouping filters to the Campaign report. Now the limit by grouping is 5.



Added conversion subs to Conversion logs.



Added possibility to set individual % for certain publishers within the Referral program. Follow this guide for details.



Disabled the button on publisher creation, if there is no added Whitelabel first.




➲ Customer journey report: 




Added column and filter by "Web-sites".



Added "First touch" and "Last touch" filers and columns to the report.




➲ Dashboard UI was updated.
