# Pinterest and RedTrack






Pinterest is a social media platform that can be a great traffic source for almost any online business. Running ads is possible with the redirect and no-redirect methods of tracking. The following article shows how to integrate Pinterest with RedTrack.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types you're planning to work with






1. Add Pinterest template to RedTrack.



1.1 Go to your RedTrack account → Traffic channels → New from template → find Pinterest→ Add → Save the template:







1.2 You can remove or change any Pinterest parameter from the template. Once you have done it, Save the template:







2. Set up a campaign in RedTrack with Pinterest as your traffic channel.



Campaigns → Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Affiliates)/&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Advertisers)&nbsp;to help you create your campaign → once the Campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



3. Launch a campaign in Pinterest.



3.1 Log into your Pinterest business account → Ads&nbsp;→ Create ad:







3.2 Update the fields with the information: business goal, campaign name, etc. → Continue:







3.3 Set your Targeting&nbsp;and&nbsp;Budget &amp; Schedule →&nbsp;scroll down the page to&nbsp;create a pin:







3.4 Set the details of your ad and add the Campaign click URL&nbsp;from RedTrack as a&nbsp;Destination link → Publish:







3.5 Review the information → Publish:







4. Set up the postback.



If you want to pass conversions back to Pinterest, you can use their pixel URL&nbsp; part for this.



Open the Ads drop-down and select the Conversion tracking tab. Copy the URL part from the pixel:







Edit the postback link if needed and put it in the RedTrack campaign settings. to do that go to Campaign settings (created within step 2) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for Pinterest→ press&nbsp;Add → check if all the needed values for the&nbsp;Postback URL parameters are in place → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.


