# Shopify: adding manual orders


Shopify ↔ RedTrack integration for clients wishing to have the data by manual orders presupposes extra settings in addition to the standard&nbsp;integration workflow. For this setup to work you should:




Integrate Shopify with RedTrack.



Create a custom clickid in RedTrack.



Add the created custom clickid to Shopify.




Setup explained





Follow&nbsp;this article&nbsp;to integrate Shopify with RedTrack.



Without following the standard workflow for Shopify ↔ RedTrack integration first, custom clickid setup for counting manual orders won’t work.





1. Create a new Campaign for manual orders to track them, record the click and get the clickid:







2. Record the click and get the clickid. To do that go to the list of your Campaigns → find the campaign created within step 1→ copy the campaign’s link → open this link in another tab to create a click:







3. Go to Logs → Clicks → copy the Click ID value next to the Campaign created within step 1:









Manual orders in Shopify can be added via the app called Metafields Guru. If you don’t have it already, download the Metafields Guru app in your Shopify account.



1. In your Shopify account go to Apps → Metafields Guru:







2. Further settings for manual orders in Shopify will differ depending on the subscription type of the downloaded app: free subscription or paid subscription:





1. In the Metafields Guru app → Shop:







2. Create metafield → choose A Single line text from the drop-down:







3. Fill in the mandatory fields → Save the changes:



Values to be inserted:Namespace=redtrack Key=clickid Value= the Click ID value you copied in RedTrack (Setup in RedTrack → step 3)







4. Create your order and add a “manual order” Tag to link this order with the added clickid. To do that:



4.1 On the main Shopify menu go to the section Orders → Create order:







4.2 Fill in all the mandatory fields in the form → scroll down to the end of the form and add the manual order tag to the Tags field → Save:







If you forgot to add a tag when creating an order, you shouldn’t just edit the already existing order by adding the Tag, but instead, follow this workflow:1. Delete all items from the order and save them.2. Add the deleted items again and save them.3. Add the tag to the order.





1. In the Metafields Guru app → Shop:







2. Metafield sets → choose Shop option from the drop-down→ Create set:







3. Put Redtrack in the Label field → press Create:







4. Fill in the mandatory fields → Save:



Values to be inserted:Label=Click id Namespace=redtrackKey=clickid







5. Get back to the main page of the Metafields Guru app → Shop 







6. Go to the tab Redtrack and insert the Click ID value you copied from RedTrack (Setup in RedTrack → step 3) → Save:







7. Create your order and add a “manual order” Tag to link this order with the added clickid. To do that:



7.1 On the main Shopify menu go to the section Orders → Create order:







7.2 Fill in all the mandatory fields in the form → scroll down to the end of the form and add the manual order tag to the Tags field → Save:







If you forgot to add a tag when creating an order, you shouldn’t just edit the already existing order by adding the Tag, but instead, follow this workflow:1. Delete all items from the order and save them.2. Add the deleted items again and save them.3. Add the tag to the order.




