# Clickdealer and RedTrack






Clickdealer is a GDM Group company, that provides performance marketing solutions for publishers, advertisers, and agencies worldwide. The company offers a comprehensive range of advertising services to fit any specific set of KPIs for its clients.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Conversion events you want to track



Traffic channel






1. Add Clickdealer as an Offer source in RedTrack.



RedTrack → Offer sources → New from template → add Clickdealer template → copy the Postback URL → Save the template:











Refer to this article for details on Offer sources in RedTrack.



2. Set up the Postback URL in Clickdealer.



2.1 In your Clickdealer account go to Tools→ Global postback tab:







2.2 Paste the postback URL into the Global S2S postback URL field and save it:







3. Obtain the Clickdealer offer URL.



3.1 Open Offers and select the offer you want to promote:







3.2 You will see the offer details. Check the box if you agree to promote this offer and click Apply for offer button:







3.3 Select the traffic type from the drop-down menu and click the Apply button:







3.4 Once your offer is approved, it will become available in My campaigns tab:







3.5 Click on the offer link and scroll down till the Get tracking links block → select the creative for your offer → Copy URL to clipboard:







4. Add Clickdealer offer to RedTrack.



In your RedTrack account go to Offers → Create new offer → fill in the mandatory fields → add Clickdealer offer link in the URL field → make sure to add the tracking parameters “s2={clickid}” at the end of the offer URL → Save:







Refer to this guide for details on how to fill in the rest of the fields in the Offer form.



5. Create a campaign in RedTrack with the traffic channel you buy the traffic from and the offer you have just added.



To help you add the campaign refer to:




this guide for Advertisers.



this guide for Affiliates.



