# Pushground and RedTrack






Pushground is a self-service advertising network providing comprehensive advertising and ad optimization solutions for ad agencies, marketers, and affiliates.



RedTrack has an API integration with Pushground, which allows you to pause campaigns.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types you're planning to work with






1. Add Pushground template to RedTrack. 



Traffic channels → New from template → find Pushground → Add → save the template:











2. Set up a campaign in RedTrack with Pushground as a traffic source. 



Campaigns→ Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Affiliates)/&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Advertisers)&nbsp;to help you create your campaign with Pushground as your traffic channel → once the Campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



3. Integrate Pushground with RedTrack.



Go to the traffic source settings → Integration → fill in the necessary details → save the changes:



The "Active" button means the integration is active.







4. Set up the tracking on the TS side.



Go to Campaigns → Create Campaign:







Place your RedTrack campaign Click URL here:







5. Set up a postback URL in RedTrack.



Go to Campaign settings (created within step 2) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for Pushground → press&nbsp;Add → check if all the needed values for the&nbsp;parameters are in place → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.



6. Set up the automated rules. Refer to this article for guidance. 


