# Marketplace








Services recommended




RedTrack.io Tech Team



For the cases where you may need one-time help, or you decide to implement a new complex funnel and don’t know what to do, or you’re afraid to make a mistake – our team is ready to take care of everything for you.






Campaign setup: from the very beginning, with a detailed personal video or on a call together with you



Traffic source/affiliate network integration (we will do it with you)



Landing page setup assistance: help with scripts implementation inside the page code or for various landing page builders



Remote setup assistance and check via Teamviewer



GTM implementation and support



Publisher panel/reporting portal setup



Domain and SSL certificate integration and setup



Complex funnels setup (several landing pages in a row, extended conversion events tracking on different pages, etc.)



External tools integration assistance (e-com, CRMs, etc.)



Research and implementation help for non-standard flows



Personalized scripts creation and implementation



New features development and implementation



Assistance with moving the data, bulk upload (offers, campaigns)






To place a request, fill in the form and we'll get back to you shorlty:







Odey &amp; MarketingTechGenius.com



RedTrack Team like when someone can deliver the results faster then we do. It helps us a lot.



So, we would like to recommend Odey and his MarketingTechGenius Team. We have seen them in action for several RedTrack.io clients and they deliver the result. Odey says they can do more. Here is the list of services they are happy to help you with:





1) RedTrack Setup and Configuration:




Complete setup of the RedTrack ( Landers, Offers, Campaigns, Traffic Channels, Domains, Custom Setups for Individuals or Teams).



Configuration of settings and preferences.




2) Integration with Affiliate Networks:




Integration with various affiliate networks:

ClickBank



MaxBounty



Digistore24



Others





Testing and verification of affiliate network integration to guarantee accurate data.




3) Traffic Source Integration:




Facebook Integration:

Configuring Facebook pixel for tracking conversions.



Adapting to changes due to iOS 14 for accurate tracking.



Utilizing UTM parameters for accurate tracking from Facebook ads.





TikTok Integration:

Implementing the TikTok Pixel for tracking and optimization.



Ensuring proper tracking of TikTok ad campaigns.





Google Ads Integration:

Setting up Google Ads conversion tracking with RedTrack.



Configuring tracking templates for Google Ads campaigns.





Microsoft/Bing Ads Integration:

Implementing tracking for Microsoft Advertising campaigns.





ClickFunnels Integration:

Configuring tracking for ClickFunnels sales funnels.



Ensuring accurate tracking of conversions within ClickFunnels.





Taboola Integration:

Setting up tracking for Taboola campaigns.





MaxBounty and Digistore24:

Tailoring integration for specific affiliate networks.





Shopify Integration:

Implementing Shopify conversion tracking with RedTrack.



Configuring tracking for specific products and campaigns.





Woocommerce Integration:

Integrating RedTrack with WooCommerce for tracking e-commerce transactions.





Ringba integrations:

Ringba - RT - Google



Ringba - RT - FB



Ringba - RT - Tiktok



Ringba - RT - Affiliate networks



Ringba Reporting Optimizations.





Other Platforms:

Tailoring integration for specific traffic sources like native ad platforms, display networks, etc.



Implementing custom tracking solutions for unique traffic sources.






4) Multi-Channel Tracking:




Ensuring tracking across various channels like social media, search engines, email, etc.



Configuring cross-channel attribution settings.




5) Troubleshooting and Support:




Providing platform-specific support for any issues related to RedTrack implementation or Affiliate Networks (Everflow, cake, hasoffers, etc.).




6) Security Measures:




Implementing security features for each platform to protect against fraud.



Regular security audits specific to the requirements of each platform.




7) Training and Documentation:




Platform-specific training sessions



Providing simplified documentation tailored to each platform.




8) API Integrations:




Integrating RedTrack with each platform through APIs for seamless data exchange.



Custom API development based on specific requirements of each platform.




9) Custom Development:




Offering custom development services for additional features or modifications specific to each platform.




10) Optimizations:




RIngba RTTs &amp; RTS &amp; Master Campaigns for Maximizing Revenue



Everflow Routing Based on EPCs and Smart links.



Data Monetization from different sources.



Connecting Ringba or other platforms With your CRM for outbounds.



CRM optimizations and support.




11) Google &amp; Youtube Consultation:




Different tricks and techniques



Optimizations




12) Custom Landing Pages Creation.



13) GPT Integrations.





Email to: odeykassam@gmail.comRemember to mention you saw this page 🙂





Cubatica Team: paid funnel set-up



Cubatica Team provided dedicated RedTrack.io funnel set-up services based on several years of RedTrack.io user experience. The best solution for media buyers looking for turnkey funnel set-up.




Regular funnel from $250



Ringba funnel from $500




Please email redtrackVIP@cubatica.com or ask the RedTrack.io team for the intro.





Banner &amp; Landing Page Design Services for Performance Marketers



Banners&amp;Landers is your go-to destination for design, web, and video services tailored for performance marketers. With expertise in creating captivating banners, high-converting landing pages, safe sites, impactful VSLs, engaging UGC, and attention-grabbing social media videos, they have all the tools to elevate your brand's performance. Their skilled copywriters excel in crafting persuasive copy and writing compelling ad angles. With years of experience and a track record of success since 2014, Banners&amp;Landers is committed to delivering exceptional results for your performance marketing campaigns



Skype: https://join.skype.com/invite/dB0GjPUvSjs7Telegram: https://t.me/bannerslandersWebsite: https://bannerslanders.com/



Do not forget to mention you found Banners&amp;Landers on RedTrack.io for a “newcomer bonus”.





Defined Chase



The Digital Marketing Agency Behind $100M Ad Spend:



From commanding tens of millions in annual ad spend to comprehensive brand elevation, Define Chase is go-to solution for e-com brands. Defined Chase team not only boost your brand’s awareness and revenue but also emphasize profitability. With expert tracking across all your main analytics and advertising channels, they offer a complete, data-driven strategy to escalate your growth.



Website: https://www.definedchase.comEmail: info@definedchase.com





Offshore staffing for Your Business



Hire ridiculously talented offshore staff that cost 40%-80% less than EU or US-based equivalents. Remotely Team specializes in hiring media-buyers but can cover other roles like full-stack developers. Please reach out to them directly or ask us for the intro.



Website: https://www.remotelytalents.com/Email: adomas@remotelytalents.com




Apps




Rapid Pace CRM



Rapidpace CRM is designed to serve a wide range of industries, including but not limited to iGaming, Casino and Betting, logistics and delivery, and more. Our system's versatility allows businesses across various sectors to streamline their user relationship management.



Find it here.





Clickpic



Clickpic is a user-friendly and easy-to-use ad creative generator, even for those with no design or technical experience. Simply upload the image, add the headline and get the banners. The generated ad creatives will be optimized for Google Display Network and Meta Ads



Find it here.





Billo



Billo, the ultimate UGC video platform trusted by over 20K brands (including HelloFresh, Nestle, and Philips), helps you achieve your brand goals with custom UGC videos made by over 3K vetted creators &amp; really affordable prices starting at $59/video.New to Billo? Get your first video with $50 OFF by using&nbsp;REDT-TCVO-BILLO&nbsp;discount code.



Find it here.

