# Magento draft


Magento&nbsp;is a powerful, open-source eCommerce platform that allows businesses to easily build and manage online stores. 



Integration





1. Add custom tracking domain.



2. Add conversion events:



Go to Tools → Conversion tracking → Conversion type → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;to help you add the needed events.



The full list of Conversion types used for successful Magento integration includes:- ViewContent- AddToCart- InitiateCheckout- Purchase



3. Add Magento as a Brand in RedTrack



Brands → New from scratch → use this guide to help you fill in the rest of the fields.



4. Add your Website:



Websites → New → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;to help you add the website (your offer).



 Once you’ve added your Website, the universal tracking script is generated automatically. To get it go to the added Website form → Scripts → scroll down to the field Universal tracking script and copy it (as you will need it later to insert in Magento):



5. Create a paid traffic campaign:



The campaign for the unattributed (organic) traffic is already in place. Now you need to create the one for the paid traffic. To do that act as follows:




Add the&nbsp;Traffic channel. Most of them have a preset template in RedTrack: API-integrated traffic channels/ Non-API integrated traffic channels.



Launch a campaign&nbsp;for the paid Traffic channel. Your website/shop will be the main link added to the traffic channel.






1. Install Magento extension to your website. It can be done in 2 ways:





Download this .zip extension file → check out&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;for further guidance.





Check out&nbsp;this video tutorial&nbsp;for details.





2. Add RedTrack universal tracking script to Magento



Copy the universal tracking script from RT (Setup in RedTrack → step 4) → go to your Magento account → Universal script → add the RT script → save the changes:






