# Join RedTrack at MAC'18 in Kiev [Gold ticket giveaway]

RedTrack Team is going to Kiev in a month! It’s our second visit to this beautiful city. This time we’re visiting Kiev to attend the biggest event in affiliate marketing that is focused on the European and CIS markets — MAC, Affiliate Conference. 
This year, MAC has changed its location and moved from Moscow to Kiev. October 3, 2018, Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, will gather together: 
• 2500+ participants;
• 200+ largest companies in the industry;
• 20+ speakers with fresh ideas and insightful life-hacks;
• affiliates, webmasters, and networks from 50 countries.
The conference is organized with the support and participation of Traffic Cardinal, and well-known CPA affiliate networks Leadbit and Mobytize. 
MAC’18 is the right place if you want to brainstorm with your colleagues in affiliate marketing, meet up with experts from leading affiliate networks and services. For networking and knowledge sharing, there would be exhibition and meet market zones, as well as great after-party!
Visit our booth G25 to find out more about how you can use RedTrack to manage, analyze, and optimize your ad campaigns and bring them to higher results and greater ROI. 
Want to join RedTrack Team at the Affiliate Conference in Kiev on October, 3? Take your time to buy the ticket! As there are THREE Gold Passes to MAC’18 just waiting for you to take them. 

How to win the Gold Pass to MAC’18?
— subscribe to our page on Facebook or VK (or both :) )

— leave a comment "Why do you want to join RedTrack at MAC'18 in Kiev" on any of these posts:

Facebook: https://goo.gl/QQRrAs 
VK: https://vk.com/wall-113822619_69 

That's it! Can it be easier? Doubt it.
How would we choose the winner?
There would be THREE winners. Two of them would be chosen with a random number generator: one would be chosen from Facebook group and one from vk group. And the third winner would be decided by our RedTrack team for the comment we'd like most. The winners would be announced on September, 14 in our social networks! 
We have good news even for those who won’t win the ticket. We asked for a special discount for you, and we’re glad to share it with you: 
redtrackgold — 50% discount on Gold pass to MAC'18 
redtrackvip — 50% discount on Vip pass to MAC'18

Note: these promocodes are valid till September, 15. 

We wish you good luck and hope to see you at MAC'18 in Kiev on October, 3. Visit us at Booth G25, or arrange the meeting with RedTrack team via our email info@redtrack.io or Telegram Channel.