# OnClickA and RedTrack






OnClickA is a global ad network for advertisers and publishers.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Landing page&nbsp;(if you have one)



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types&nbsp;you’re planning to work with






1. Get the OnClickA token.



In your OnClickA account go to Tracking → Conversion tracking → copy the token value from the Postback URL:







2. Add the OnClickA template to RedTrack.



In your RedTrack account go to Traffic channels → New from template → find OnClickA → Add → put in the OnClickA token value instead of [REPLACE] in the Postback URL → Save:











3. Create a campaign in RedTrack with OnClickA as your traffic channel.



3.1 In your redTrack account go to Campaigns → Create new campaign → use this guide (for Affiliates)/ this guide (for Advertisers) to help you add your campaign → once the campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



3.2 To apply your postback within your campaign settings navigate to S2S Postback for OnClickA section → Add → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.



4. Create campaign in OnClickA and add RT tracking link there.



RT tracking link in OnClickA is added on the Ad level. Then you create the campaign with this Ad. 



4.1 Create Ad and add RT tracking link to this Ad. 



Ads → Create Ads → add RT tracking link (copied in step 3.1) to the Common URL link → fill in the rest of the fields → Save the Ad:











Refer to OnClickA KB for guidance on how to fill in the rest of the Ad page fields.



4.2 Create campaign and choose from the drop-down the created Ad with RT tracking link in it.



Campaigns → Create campaign → choose from the drop-down the Ad with RT tracking link in it:











Cost models in OnClickA and RT campaigns should match. So if you chose CPC in OnClickA campaign, you should choose CPC in the settings of the already created RT campaign: - set under the Pricing section in OnClickA. - set under the Campaign Cost section in RedTrack.



Refer to OnClickA KB for guidance on how to fill in the rest of the Campaign page fields.


