# Affiliate marketing conferences to attend till the end of 2019

With technology development, now it's easy to get any kind of knowledge without leaving a home. Many people become skeptical about the need for offline education in the modern world. This is especially true for independent-minded people. Like affiliates. But then why do we see an increasing number of affiliate marketing conferences out there? And why there are more and more attendees? 

Because let's be honest, a truly motivated affiliate will never exchange personal advice from an industry leader or backroom conversations with top professional community for a forum thread or popular online courses. On top of that, at affiliate marketing conferences you can

 	 keep abreast of the latest changes in your particular sphere,
 	learn unobvious tips, 
 	get inspiration for what you doing, 
 	make contacts with top professionals,
 	get nice bonuses and discounts from companies




More than 30 affiliate marketing conferences have already passed this year. Among them world-known Affiliate Summit West and MAU in LA, London affiliate conference and others. Don't worry, if you did not attend them. There are plenty of others worth to visit.

Here's a list of 12 wonderful offline opportunities to get acquainted with the best and brightest people in affiliate marketing, find creative ideas about how to increase your ROI and improve your personal brand
in June 
Guru Conf
Kiev, 14 June
For whom: CPA-networks, affiliates, webmasters, businesses from CIS region

&nbsp;




Reasons to attend:

GuruConf is one of the biggest affiliate marketing conferences in CIS region:

 	36 speakers with real cases: Bla Bla Car, Facebook, Google
 	1500 eCom, PPC, CPA, SEO gurus
 	2 parties with the best industry experts in Eastern Europe

 Here you’ll hear speeches on such topics as “Synergy of SEO &amp; PPC”, “Pay per Call cases on the US market”, “Low-cost monetization of Telegram channel”.

+ Meet RedTrack team here

Zurich iGaming Affiliate Conference
Zurich, June 21
For whom: affiliates working with gaming vertical

&nbsp;



&nbsp;

Reasons to attend:

At Zurich iGaming you can learn more about effective traffic arbitrage and marketing tools, get advice from online gambling sphere experts, and find new business partners to develop your business.

You will

 	attend a series of presentations to learn how to attract online players, create and maintain an attractive online offer, and learn the best European market experiences in the vertical
 	get acquainted with new solutions of legal experts, SEO, arbitrage specialists, and casinos software developers in a special demo zone
 	get new professional contacts, find inspiration and new ideas for yourself

Speakers you might want to meet:

Clas Dahlen, Metal Casino
Chris Looney, Red Tiger Gaming
Levon Nikoghosyan, PartnerMatrix
in July
Affiliate Word Europe 2019
Barcelona, 7 - 11 July
For whom: everyone is welcomed from newbies to experts. The most common backgrounds of attendees are affiliate marketing, e-commerce, and dropshipping

&nbsp;



&nbsp;

Reasons to attend:

July 7 - Pre-conference deals at ClickBid meetup

This informal party is buying &amp; selling industry meeting point at Terrace &amp; Bar zone of wonderful Hilton Barcelona Hotel

Here you'll have the opportunity to share your contacts with all the affiliate industry men: advertisers, media buyers for Pop / Redirect / PushNotification / Native, Agencies, RTB , OpenRTB, DSPs, SSPs, Recruiters, Influencers, SaaS Solutions.

By the way, this party is sponsored by RedTrack, so hope to see you there.

July 8-11 - Conference

it's 4 days offline event consisting of 3 major parts:

 	two days of speeches, panels, networking events with the world’s best marketers,
 	FBML - Facebook Mastery live -  a training opportunity that teaches high-level white-hat Facebook performance marketing know-how, tactics, and strategies
 	ECML - E-commerce Mastery live - intensive training workshop on e-commerce marketing featuring the industry’s top minds

Speakers you might want to meet:

Jono Alderson, Yoast
Matthew Woodward, MatthewWoodward.co.uk
Tyler Morrow, Clickbooth

&nbsp;
IGB Affiliate Amsterdam (IGB Live!)
Amsterdam, July 16-19
For whom: affiliates, operators, and affiliate programs from all around the world



&nbsp;

Reasons to attend:

iGB Affiliate Amsterdam is an evolution of the Amsterdam Affiliate Conference and is the part of famous IGB Live! event. This year IGB Live! will be divided into two zones: iGB Affiliate zone and the iGB zone. 

At the first zone, you'll see the world's leading affiliate content and over 70 exhibitors dedicated to meeting affiliates. A good place to get SEO expertise, leading social media tips and tricks.
in August
Affiliate Summit East
New York, USA, August, 11-13
For whom: affiliates, affiliate management solutions, advertisers, OPMs and agencies, solution providers, and networks.

&nbsp;



&nbsp;

Reasons to attend:

If you're not a newbie in the field of affiliate marketing, the names of Shawn Collins and Missy Ward should be well known to you. Having started in 1997 they become a real pro in the industry and eventually founded a conference that soon became world-known.

The conference with a history of 16 years provides educational sessions on the latest industry issues and foster a productive networking environment, gathering top industry representatives. Now it includes such products and events as Affiliate Summit Inc. Affiliate Summit Social Events, Performance Marketing Summit, FeedFront Magazine, GeekCast.fm, AffStat.com, and ReveNews.com

Speakers you might want to meet:

Todd Crawford, Impact
Priest Willis, Lenovo
Mike Nunez,  AffiliateManager.com
in September
DMEXCO

Cologne, Germany, September 11-12
For whom: affiliates with an interest in digital marketing and economy



&nbsp;

Reasons to attend:

DMEXCO is an event where more than 50 000 digital marketing professionals, 1,000 exhibitors, and more than 550 speakers from around the world meet. It's a community for key players in digital business, marketing, and tech pioneers to set the digital agenda for each year


DMEXCO offers an ecosystem with seminars, debates, and expositions outlining the future of the digital economy and driving market value.

+ Meet RedTrack team here

&nbsp;
TES
Prague, Czech Republic, September, 13-16
For whom: affiliates, media buyers, advertisers &amp; publishers who especially want to expand their network

&nbsp;



&nbsp;

Reasons to attend:

TES Affiliate Conferences is the place where professionals from the online entertainment, e-commerce, financial, gaming, gambling, dating, forex, health, nutraceuticals industries come together for an intensive 3-day networking session

The warm climate weather,  friendly local culture, and only motivated and interested delegates create a perfect atmosphere for building strong interpersonal relationships that have huge potential to be developed and  maintained

Speakers you might want to meet:

Vince Charlton, Adultwork.com
Simovici Florin, Traffic manager.com
Vlad Zhovtenko, RedTrack.io

+Meet RedTrack team here

&nbsp;
India Affiliate Summit
Gurugram, September 19
For whom: all the affiliate marketing community



Reasons to attend:
India Affiliate Summit has been the main meeting point for affiliates in India for a very long time. It's going to be


 	70+speakers
 	70 exhibitors
 	21700 delegates
 	500 + companies

Enlightening sessions, thought-provoking presentations, and opportunities to share your business contacts, you be it business cards are only little parts of it. India Affiliate Summit especially emphasizes the power of alliances and affiliations now and in the future of affiliate marketing. RE: IMAGINE concept of the conference brings together visionaries and imaginers to discuss development vectors of the industry.
Their other feature is Affiliate Street. Walk through this interactive street and get expert advice, meet the latest products/services &amp; collaboration opportunities. 
Speakers you might want to meet:

Nick Peroni, Ecom Empires
Parul Bhargava, vCommision
Anurag Gupta, SVG Media
 in October
Affiliate Summit APAC
Singapore, October, 1-2
For whom: affiliates, advertisers, publishers, bloggers, influencers, networks, traffic sources and technology providers working in Asian market

&nbsp;




Reasons to attend:

You can start your October in Singapore with

 	content created by the conference's advisory board. It covers compliance, payments, tracking, innovation, and all the latest industry challenges and opportunities
 	 a two-day exhibition of key networks and technology providers, region's leading, and up-and-coming advertisers
 	 Meet Market attendance – a six-hour network event
 	Affiliate University events

Afifliate university is an interactive affiliate marketing 101 for content sites, influencers and bloggers that provides them with the knowledge to take advantage of the opportunity performance marketing presented
Speakers you might want to meet:

David Zhao, Airbnb
Fred Schebesta, Finder
Zane McIntyre, Commission factory

&nbsp;
Lisbon Affiliate Conference
Lisbon, October 16-19

For whom: affiliates interested in igaming 




Reasons to attend:

Lisbon affiliate conference is about over 2,500 delegates, 100 affiliate programs, and 100 strong exhibition floor. The conference covers SEO, social media, regulation and compliance, emerging markets and technical SEO in igaming. 

Attend conference sessions and learn how to increase your revenue, get Insights from industry experts and visit various networking parties in incredible venues.

Speakers you might want to meet:

Asbjørn Bieling-Hansen, Gaming Innovation Group
Amir Mikay, TrafficLightMedia
Assaf Dor, Cellxpert

A big plus - it is all FREE for affiliates and introducing brokers
 in November

Ad Tech Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan, November 27,28
For whom: brands, agencies, Media, and Solution Providers



Reasons to attend:

It's № 1 international digital marketing conference in Asia that brings together over 15 000 attendees. 2019 is the 10th year anniversary for Ad tech Tokyo, so a lot of unexpected pleasant surprises are awaited.

You may choose and join one of several tracks: 

 	
Track for Brand Value Improvement
with topics like "What We Should Do so that Ads Will Not Be Hated" and "True Meaning of Customer Experience - Legend v.s. Digital".

 	
Track for Creative, Contents, and Media
with topics like "How will 5G Change the Contents?" and "Gather Around Performers! How to Become Popular in Video"


 	
Track for Fintech, Blockchain, and Payments
with topics like "Blockchain and Marketing" and "E-Commerce Platform for the New Era"

 	
Track for Work Styles, Management, and Resource Development
with topics like "How to Make Money other than Advertisement" and "What Marketers can do for Social Issues"

 	
Track for Adtech and Performances
with topics like " Next Step for Customer Acquisition" and " Brand Safety and ROI"


in December 
Affiliate World Asia 2019
Bangkok, December 4-5
For whom: performance marketers and e-commerce entrepreneurs, ad networks, traffic sources, tracking solutions



Reasons to attend:

Being a huge affiliate marketing event, organizers, however, make emphasis on the quality, not the quantity. On average, attendees spend over $500 million in advertising each year with 47%  making over $100k each month

 	Niche labs with influencers' and experts' presentations
 	Two niche- focused hour-long networking "mixers" + variety of special parties
 	over 15-hours of expert content 
 	around 3,000+ attendees
 	190+ of the biggest affiliate networks, ad networks, agencies, and service providers exhibiting

Speakers you might want to meet

Tan brothers, eCommerce Elites Mastermind
Neil Patel, Crazy Egg &amp; Hello Bar
Simon Mader, Adbaker

Updated: If you missed AWA Bangkok 2019, read the full review here
Tips for affiliate marketing conferences attendees
Сonference attendance in itself won't give you 100% results. Here we collected a few tips that will help you to squeeze everything out of the affiliate marketing events you're going to:

 	Fill out your social media profiles
 	Get a business card

 	Make a short-list of people you want to meet at the event. Make a thorough research on what they are doing and their successes. Find common points and formulate how you can be useful for them

 	Prepare a general 30-second pitch for yourself. Be sure to include your name, occupation and the answer to what're you doing at the conference
 	At the conference write down all the information you find useful ( even if you have a phenomenal memory, you'll forget it anyway)
 	At networking sessions concentrate on meeting those high-quality individuals which names you wrote down in the second paragraph.
 	Attend after-parties
 	Follow up all the people you met at the conferenceTake a look at other educational opportunities

&nbsp;