# 22-Jun


 	Publisher panel updates:

 	publisher creation logic changed: when adding publishers you'll need to add a Whitelabel instead of the domain; Whitelabels should always have a title; you cannot add publishers without creating a Whitelabel first. For more details go to the article Publisher panel: overview and the embedded articles.
 	now in the Pub panel, you can also see the Referral balance right under the Balance value. For screenshots and more details go to the article Publisher panel: settings for publisher.
 	possibility to download invoices in PDF format. For more details go to the article Publisher panel: managing payouts.
 	new Multiple Postbacks feature has been introduced the Pub panel. For more details go to the article Publisher panel: adding whitelabel (step 7).




 	Updated Pricing for the Advertisers and Agency. Go to our site (tab Advertiser and Agency accordingly) for more details.
 	Tagging your Campaigns has become even easier. Check RT KB article Tags for more details.
 	When adding a domain a tip was added urging you to use 3rd level domain, not 2nd level domain. Ex: att.trk.agency, and not trk.agency. More about custom tracking domains can be checked out here.
 	Once generated, the Clickbank API key is now filled in automatically to the Offer source Postback URL. For more details check out our RT KB article ClickBank and our RedTrack-Clickbank video tutorial.
 	 In Google Ads and Bind Ads templates next to the Google/Bing API integration section were added labels not connected or connected in case access token was inserted
 	Fast grouping in Campaign report now has Traffic &amp; Offer Source in quick access. Go to the article Reports to learn more about filtering the data in Reports.
 	EPC for listicles is now working
 	ROI for conversion types is now available
 	Possibility to tranfer Facebook browser ID to Facebook CAPI
 	Higher possibility of the Facebook conversion to be delivered since RT now checks and considers all the parameters from user_data.
