# 22-Jul


 	Deep link functionality was introduced to the Publisher panel. Go to the article Publisher panel: deep link for more details.
 	The Offer upload feature was migrated to the new UI.
 	A hint was added to the form when adding a new domain advising users to use a 3rd level domain, not a 2nd level one. Ex: att.trk.agency, and not trk.agency. Go to the article Adding custom tracking domain for more details on the matter.
 	Campaign Manager 360 feature was added as a separate section to the Google Ads Traffic source form. It serves for matching the types of conversions for Google.
 	Google Ads and Bing auto cost update now checks the geo data as well and distributes the traffic based on 2 criteria (geo+ad, ad group, or campaign). If there is no geo info, the data is distributed among all the clicks equally. It works for Team, Enterprise, Custom, Scale, Prevail, and Agency.
 	A hint was added to the ClickBank Offer source template reminding users to add the ClickBank secret key in Tools -&gt; Integrations -&gt; Offer Sources. For more details go to the ClickBank integration guide.
 	The Autooptimization Report feature was migrated to the new UI. Click here to check out how it works.
 	Publisher balance logic was reviewed and updated as follows:

 	all the sums are calculated in the currency of the account;
 	the sum is shown in the balance and publisher revenue when all the conditional postbacks are passed, and the status of the conversion does not equal declined;
 	Pub revenue changes the balance only with direct conversions. The referral program does not count in that case;
 	a separate balance is shown for direct conversions and referral conversions;
 	when a payment is created, it is first taken from the regular balance and then from the referral balance;
 	Pub payout for publisher postback is sent with the traffic source currency;
 	the referral balance is displayed with the account currency.




 	TimeZone bug in Reports was fixed.
 	Offer URL field in the Offer source template was migrated to the new UI and placed at the top of the template.
 	Bug with empty email dynamic parameters for notification customization in the Publisher panel was fixed.
 	Bug with the export of Conversion logs was fixed.
 	API reports pagination feature was introduced.
