# Yeesshh and RedTrack






Yeesshh is a pop-traffic provider working with both mobile and desktop devices.



RedTrack has an API integration with Yeesshh, which gives you the following benefits:




Pause: campaign, placement, creative



Create automated rules




Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types&nbsp;you’re planning to work with






1. Add Yeesshh template to RedTrack.



Traffic channels → New from template → find Yeesshh → Add → Save the template:











2. Integrate Yeesshh with RedTrack.



In the added Yeesshh traffic channel settings scroll down to Yeesshh API integration → fill in the Login and Password fields (should be taken from your Yeesshh account) → Save changes to the template:







Active button means the integration is up and running:



3. Set up a campaign in RedTrack with the Yeesshh traffic channel.



Campaigns → Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Affiliates)/&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Advertisers)&nbsp;to help you create the campaign with Yeesshh as your traffic channel → once the Campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy&nbsp;Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



4. Set up the tracking on the Yeesshh side.



Launch a campaign in Yeesshh → add the RedTrack Campaign Click URL (copied in step 3) to your campaign.



5. Set up the postback URL in RedTrack.



Go to Campaign settings (created within step 3) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for Yeesshh → Add → check if all the needed values for the&nbsp;parameters are in place → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.



6. Set up the&nbsp;automation.




Use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;to help set up&nbsp;rules.



Use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;for setting up the&nbsp;auto update cost&nbsp;feature.



