# Clickadu and RedTrack






Clickadu is a digital advertising network for web and mobile channels with excellent expertise, unique capabilities, and experience in revenue maximization for publishers and advertisers.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types you're planning to work with






1. Add Clickadu as a Traffic channel in RedTrack.



In your RedTrack account go to Traffic channels → New from template → find Clickadu → Add → Save the template:











2. Set up a campaign in RedTrack with the Clickadu traffic channel.



Campaigns → Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Affiliates)/&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Advertisers)&nbsp;to help you create your campaign with Clickadu as your traffic channel → once the Campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy&nbsp;Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



3. Set up the tracking on the Clickadu side.



In your Clickadu account go to Campaigns → Create campaign → add the campaign Click URL from RedTrack (copied in step 2) to the Target URL field:







4. Get the postback parameters from Clickadu.



In your Clickadu accoun go to Tracking → your URL is generated automatically → copy your unique identifier and aid parameters:







5. Set up a postback URL in RedTrack.



Go to Campaign settings (created within step 2) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for Clickadu → Add → check if the unique identifier and aid parameters are in place → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.


