# Taboola and RedTrack










Taboola is&nbsp;the world's largest discovery platform serving 360 billion content recommendations to over one billion people across the web each month. 



RedTrack has an API integration with Taboola, which gives you the following benefits:




Synchronize costs



Pause: campaign, placement, creative



Create automated rules




Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer (if you're an Affiliate)/ Brand and Website (if you're an Advertiser)






1. Add Taboola template to RedTrack and integrate the two platforms.



1.1 Traffic channels  → New from template → find Taboola and press Add → Save the template:











1.2 In Taboola template scroll down to the section Taboola API integration → fill in the fields Account Id, Client ID, and Client Secret → press Save changes:







Taboola API integration insights:1. In case you have a manager account you must remember that the data for the integration should be taken from the account where your traffic is coming from. Meaning:☛ you are connected to the network account type→ your traffic and Campaigns should be attributed to this account;☛ you are connected to the sub-account type→ your traffic and Campaigns should be attributed to this account.2. Account Id value cannot consist of just numbers or just letters. It’s a combination of letters + number(s) or/and special characters which usually looks in the code like “som2ething-sc” or "example-network"3. Turn to your Taboola Account manager for the Client ID and Client secret.4. Costs in the Taboola Traffic channel can be updated on the level Сampaign + Placement + Geo



3. Add conversion types.




Here is the guide on how to add conversion events in RedTrack.



Here is the guide on how to add conversion events in Taboola.




▸ Names of the conversion events in RedTrack and Taboola should match. Without adding the matching conversion events in Taboola, S2S Postback for Taboola may not fire.▸ Taboola accepts conversion types (event names) typed only in small letters.



4. Create the Campaign in RedTrack with Taboola as the Traffic channel.



Campaigns → Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;for Affiliates /&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;for Advertisers to help you add the campaign → once your campaign is saved, copy the automatically generated&nbsp;click URL&nbsp;(your tracking link):







5. Follow this guide to help you set up RT's tracking link and manage settings on the Taboola side.



6. Set up the Postback URL in RedTrack.



Go to Campaign settings (created within step 4) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for Taboola → press&nbsp;Add → check if the value for the EVENT_NAME parameter is replaced as needed → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.



7. Set up the&nbsp;automation.




Use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;to help set up&nbsp;rules.



Use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;for setting up the&nbsp;auto update cost&nbsp;feature.



