# AdNow and RedTrack






Adnow is proud to be a platform for over 160 000 partners, serving over 6 billion impressions each month throughout 114 countries. They work hard every day in order to improve their products and algorithms and provide the highest possible incomes for both sides – advertisers and publishers.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types&nbsp;you’re planning to work with






1. Add AdNow template to RedTrack.



Traffic channels → New from template → find AdNow → Add → Save the template:











2. Set up a campaign in RedTrack with the AdNow traffic channel.



Campaigns → Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Affiliates)/&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Advertisers)&nbsp;to help you create the campaign with AdNow as your traffic channel → once the Campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy&nbsp;Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



3. Set up the tracking on the Adnow side.



3.1 Go to your profile → Add Campaign:







3.2 Set the name, budget, and basic targeting → create → go to the Creatives → add your RedTrack campaign Click URL (copied in step 2) to the Link field:







4. Set up the postback URL in RedTrack.



Go to Campaign settings (created within step 2) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for AdNow → Add → paste the postback URL from AdNow → check if all the needed values for the&nbsp;highlighted parameters are in place → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.


