# Adsterra and RedTrack






Adsterra is a premium advertising network serving over 10 billion geo-targeted ad impressions per month. They connect product and service companies to their audience through smart advertising platform to raise brand awareness globally, improve ROI, and increase ad revenue. 



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types&nbsp;you’re planning to work with






1. Add Adsterra template to RedTrack.



1.1 Traffic channels → New from template → find Adsterra → Add:







1.2 Change macro “NAMEOFADVERTISER” with your Adsterra’s login name → Save the template:











2. Set up a campaign in RedTrack with the Adsterra traffic channel.



Campaigns→ Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Affiliates)/&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Advertisers)&nbsp;to help you create the campaign with Adsterra as your traffic channel → once the Campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy&nbsp;Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



3. Set up the tracking on the Adsterra side. 



In your Adsterra account go to Campaigns → Create → fill in the mandatory fields → add the tracking parameters from the RT Campaign (copied in step step 2) in the Landing URL field:







4. Set up the postback URL in RedTrack.



Go to Campaign settings (created within step 2) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for Adsterra → Add → check if all the needed values for the&nbsp;parameters are in place → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.


