# Snapchat and RedTrack






Snapchat&nbsp;is an American multimedia instant messaging app and service.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added&nbsp;custom tracking domain.





1. Add Snapchat as a Traffic channel in RedTrack.



Traffic channels → New from template → find Snapchat and Add it → Save the template:











In the Additional parameters section of the Snapchat template you can modify some parameters. Blocked (greyed) parameters should be used under the same sub-values with the same roles assigned as provided in the initial template.The following are essential for the API cost integration:{{ad.id}} should always be with Aid role{{adset.id}} should always be with Gid role{{campaign.id}} should always be with Cid roleIn the Additional parameters section of the Snapchat template you can modify some parameters. Blocked (greyed) parameters should be used under the same sub-values with the same roles assigned as provided in the initial template.The following are essential for the API cost integration:{{ad.id}} should always be with Aid role{{adset.id}} should always be with Gid role{{campaign.id}} should always be with Cid role



Without saving the template first, the system won’t be ready for integration, so the cost and conversion data can be lost.



2. Integrate your Snapchat account with RedTrack to receive costs.



In the added Snapchat template navigate to SnapChat API integration → click on Connect Snapchat → Continue:











Green Connected icon means the your integration has been successful:



3. Add conversion types to RedTrack.



Tools → Conversion tracking → Conversion types → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;to help you add the events.



4. Add pixel, access token, and match the conversion events.



RedTrack provides you with an opportunity to add Snapchat pixel(s) on the traffic channel level or on the offer/website level. Before you proceed with pixel adjustment consider the following:☝If you configure the Snapchat CAPI in the traffic channel template, RedTrack will only send conversions from Snapchat to Snapchat.☝If you configure the Snapchat CAPI in the offer/website template, RedTrack will send to Snapchat all conversions received on that offer/website from different traffic channels, not just Snapchat only. Plus in your offer/website template you can add multiple pixels.



Do not configure the Snapchat CAPI in both templates - traffic channel and offer/website, or you'll receive duplicated conversions!



Choose the preferred method and act accordingly:





1. Go to your Snapchat account and copy the values for Pixel ID and Access Token:




To get your Pixel ID go to Assets → Pixels:













To get your Access Token go to Business Settings → Business details → Conversions API token section → Generate token → copy the generated token:












2. Go to the settings of the added Snapchat traffic channel template → edit → Snapchat default data source (pixel) section → fill in the values for Pixel ID and Access Token:







3. Match RedTrack Conversion Types with Snapchat Event Names:









1. Go to your Snapchat account and copy the values for Pixel ID and Access Token:




To get your Pixel ID go to Assets → Pixels:













To get your Access Token go to Business Settings → Business details → Conversions API token section → Generate token → copy the generated token:












2. Go to RedTrack → Offers → create the Offer / edit the already created one → tab CAPI → scroll down to the Snapchat section → add the copied pixel(s) and access token(s):







3. Match RedTrack Conversion Types with Snapchat Event Names:









5. Add Offer source and Offer



Use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;to add your Offer source and Offer. For better conversion attribution in the added Offer source template → Additional parameters assign the following roles:




Phone



Email



First Name



Last Name



Zip Code








6. Create a tracking Campaign in RedTrack



6.1 Campaigns → Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;for Affiliates /&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;for Advertisers to help you add the campaign with Snapchat as your traffic channel → once your campaign is saved, copy the automatically generated&nbsp;click URL&nbsp;(your tracking link):







We suggest using a no-redirect tracking method (the same is used with Facebook Campaigns) as your ad will most likely be banned with a redirect. 



6.2 Enable the Auto update costs toggle in your campaign:







Refer to this article for details on the auto update costs feature in RT.



7. Set up the tracking in Snapchat



7.1 Create Ads → Instant Create:







7.2 Web visits → in the URL field add your main URL + tracking parameters copied from step 6.1 → Next:







Proceed further with the traffic targeting and payment methods as per your needs. Once you’ve filled in the fields, click&nbsp;Publish&nbsp;and the ad will go for approval. When your campaign gets published it’ll be tracked with RedTrack.


