# PPCMate and RedTrack






PPCmate is a self-serve advertising platform, that can offer you your own branded and customized DSP (demand-side platform). They can also provide you with all the tools you may need to run your own successful digital advertising business.



Integration





Before you proceed with the integration, make sure to have the already added:




Custom tracking domain



Offer source and Offer&nbsp;(if you’re an Affiliate)/&nbsp;Brand and Website&nbsp;(if you’re an Advertiser)



Conversion types&nbsp;you’re planning to work with






1. Add PPCmate template to RedTrack.



Traffic channels → New from template → find PPCmate → Add → Save the template:











2. Set up a campaign in RedTrack with the PPCmate traffic channel.



Campaigns→ Create new campaign → use&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Affiliates)/&nbsp;this guide&nbsp;(for Advertisers)&nbsp;to help you create the campaign with PPCmate as your traffic channel → once the Campaign is added, your tracking link is automatically created, copy&nbsp;Click URL:







Refer to these articles for details on the preferred method of tracking:– Universal script– No-redirect– Impressions



3. Set up the tracking on the PPCmate side.



In your PPCmate account go to Campaigns → choose the traffic type desired → paste the Click URL from RedTrack&nbsp;(copied in&nbsp;step 2) into the Destination URL section:







4. Set up the postback URL in RedTrack.



Go to Campaign settings (created within step 2) → scroll down to&nbsp;S2S Postback for PPCmate → Add → check if all the needed values for the&nbsp;parameters are in place → Save changes to the campaign:











Important!▸ If you changed the Postback URL in the Traffic channel (added/removed some parameters to it), remember to manually update the link in Campaign settings as well, as it won’t be generated correctly automatically.▸ Some Traffic channels require you to edit the Postback with specific parameters for each Campaign (e.g., the goal for Exoclick or ap_key for Go2Mobi). If the field remains blank or something like “REPLACE” is stated, that means you need to define the Postback conditions manually.


