# Top 5 Tips To Consider When Looking For The Best Affiliate Network

In recent years there are a bunch of affiliate networks that all compete against each other for the #1 spot on the market! Finding the right one can be difficult, but with these simple 5 tips, you should be able to find the best affiliate network for you!
Tip #1. Who Is Your Target
The choice of networks is enormous and you have to start narrowing it down. First of all, you should focus on who you will be targeting. If you are into specific niches (or verticals), try finding affiliate networks that focus on said niches. If you don’t know how your niche would perform on a network, feel free to ask them! It is in their interest to give you as much info as possible. 


Tip #2. Check For Fees Or Hidden Costs 
Affiliate marketing is performance-based, so the better you do the more money you make for the network and yourself. Some networks are greedy so they also ask for a fee or monthly payments that you need to make in order to work with them. This not only shows that they don’t believe in your skills, but it is also a scummy thing to do. Try searching for networks that treat you right and actually trust you, it will make a huge difference!
Tip #3. Don’t Avoid Competition
Beginners often get scared of networks that are used by their competitors, but this shouldn’t be the case. If all of your competitors are running on a network, then that network is probably doing something right. Just make sure to check how successful their efforts with the network truly are. 

The increased number of competitors means that there will also be an influx of relevant and established publishers. 
Tip #4. Tracking
For most people, basic tracking and reporting are more than enough. But some merchants require a more robust tracking solution that not all affiliate networks can provide. Sometimes these better tracking features cost extra so research the solution that is right for you. 

Looking for a feature-rich ad tracking solution with 160+ turnkey integrations with top affiliate and advertising networks? Register for a 14-day free trial with RedTrack or request a demo call with our specialists. 
Tip #5. Support and Further Info
Find affiliate networks that offer you full support with any problem you might have. If you have constant issues and the network doesn’t care at all, that is a good sign that you should avoid working with them. 

Check if they are a black box (they don’t share info about traffic origins, publishers, and a lot of other things). If yes, try finding a network that is more open and transparent about their operation. 
Try finding out as much as you can before signing up with a Network.

 	Is it an established or completely new network?
 	Do people have issues with it?
 	How many affiliates use it?
 	Where is the company located?

All of this will help you form a better opinion about how trustworthy the network actually is. 

There are a bunch of criteria that you can narrow your search down. You should spend a considerable amount of time looking through the available choices. Pick the right one the first time and things will be much easier. 

Experts have additional tips that they might share with beginners. One of these experts,  iAmAttila had this to add to our article:
"The most important thing when choosing an affiliate network is to work with an established one with a good history in the industry. You don't want to get ripped off by not getting paid. The best CPA network always offers payouts that meet your needs..."
&nbsp;