# 23-Apr



Added the possibility to add matched conversions when integrating Bing Ads source with RedTrack. Click here to learn more about Bing Ads integration in RT.



Bugfix: while signing up in the Publisher panel, choosing the needed country from the dropdown is now possible.



Bugfix: Impression URLs in Campaign settings are now shown correctly.



Bugfix: removed unnecessary columns that do not show conversion subs parameters for the chosen report.



Bugfix: default settings can now be applied to the list of Campaigns and Columns.



Bugfix: all the conversions are now successfully displayed in the Logs of the Publisher panel.



Added role names to the Subs in the Campaign report within the Reporting portal.



Added the possibility to add landing pages to the funnel in the Campaign form once the advertiser enables the feature of creating landing pages and funnel templates.



Add validation of mandatory field "Title" to the Funnel templates.



Bugfix: now the exported report file only contains the columns that the user has selected.



Bugfix: the Campaign form no longer crashes if convtypes do not exist.



Added the field Alias channel to the Traffic channel form. It helps to identify the origin of this TC: whether it was added as paid traffic or added as organic and then cloned/edited→ named as the paid traffic channel. Click here for more info on Traffic channels in RT.



Bugfix: postback status is now shown in the Logs.



A new condition type "Add Frequency "Last" was added to RT Rules functionality.



Added the option to hide unnecessary tracking links in the Publisher panel.



Changed the logic of the toggle “Don’t show cost”: if it's turned on in one report page, it'll be by default turned on in all the other report pages and vice versa.



Updated the table versions of such pages as Landers, Traffic channels.



Name of the Campaign Status was changed from Archived to Paused.

