# Tickets Giveaway for ASW 2018

During January 7–9, 2018 more than 6,000 digital marketers from over 70 countries will gather in Las Vegas for the Affiliate Summit West 2018 — the first premier global affiliate marketing event of the coming year.
Within the 3-day-summit, a wide range of topics would be covered, including affiliate growth strategies, traffic sources optimization, appliance of analytics to performance increasing, industry insights for 2018, and much more.
The conference and trade show will offer the attendees:
• 3 trade show areas with 300+ exhibitors;
• 100+ speakers with 70+ relevant sessions;
• A diversity of networking events.
Visit the Affiliate Summit West official page to take a comprehensive look at the event’s agenda.
ASW 2018 is the right place if you want to meet up and brainstorm with the people engaged in doing what you do. The keynotes for Affiliate Summit West 2018 would be the big-names:

Besides that, the speakers are highly interesting. The latest industry trends, analysis, and challenges would be covered by over 100 speakers with 70 engaging presentations. Among them:


Who would be interested in attending Affiliate Summit West 2018?
It’s a good idea for you to go, if:
• you’re interested in networking and building face-to-face relationships;
• you want to learn latest tips and gimmicks in digital marketing;
• you’re a blogger interested in learning how to incorporate affiliate marketing;
• you’re looking for the opportunity to meet over 6,000 digital marketers from over 70 countries in one place;
• you’re looking for new tools and ideas to start 2018 in a big way;
• you’re serious about building your business
No matter if you’re a beginner in affiliate marketing or a veteran with years of experience, Affiliate Summit West 2018 is the best solution for demonstrating your ideas, networking, and learning.
Let’s finally move to the objective we are all here –

Christmas giveaway!
Nearly in a month, the RedTrack.io team is going to Las Vegas to exhibit its ultimate affiliate marketing tracking and analytics software there, and we want to share this exciting opportunity to attend the premier event in affiliate marketing with two of you! Yes, there would be two winners that will win tickets for ASW and would receive an opportunity to start 2018 boosting their marketing experience.
The Summit is a little over 1 month away, so we will choose a winner on December 21 (Thursday). As good Christmas present as any?
The condition of participation is easy as it can be:
you should be a RedTrack user and have at least 1 click in your data. That’s it!
p.s. Haven’t yet tested the affiliate marketing tracking software RedTrack.io? You still have a couple of weeks to do this!
The winner selection:
The 1st winner would be selected by means of Random Winner Generator.
While the 2nd winner will be decided by the RedTrack team among most active users and contributors.
Be sure to implement both the requirement to win the ticket for Affiliate Summit West.
The winner would be announced on December 21, 2017 (Thursday).
May good luck be with you!
If you didn’t find an opportunity to meet face-to-face our RedTrack team in 2017, let’s do it at the beginning of 2018! Arrange the meeting with the RedTrack Product Manager, Vlad Zhovtenko by emailing to info@redtrack.io, and get to know more about our tracking solution and the exclusive features that are near to come. Or visit us at table TT9, Exhibit Hall.