# Autumn Affiliate Marketing Trends 2023: What Offers To Run After the Summer Season?

Summer dead season is approaching an end — so it’s high time you burst back into the affiliate field with fresh ideas. How to begin this game, and what’s worth trying out this autumn, though?

PropellerAds explored dozens of case studies from its partners to create predictions for the upcoming autumn. The first insight revealed Popunder had become the leading campaign format last autumn. Bringing 2,000,000 impressions daily regardless of the season, it also perfectly matches affiliate marketing verticals that will most likely shine out throughout this fall.

This article will show the collection of these trending verticals with case studies and special PropellerAds insights: 

 	iGaming Offers
 	Utility Apps
 	eCommerce Offers
 	Finance Apps
 	To Sum Up

Trend 1: iGaming Offers
We wouldn’t call summer a dead season for the whole affiliate marketing — it isn’t really; there are always evergreen niches. However, the sports betting vertical does experience some, let’s call it, slack period until August — there are almost no significant events, with several exceptions.

So, autumn becomes a game changer: all the biggest sports leagues begin their seasons — and sports offers will start gaining traction again. 

If we are speaking about exactly this fall, here is what we are expecting:





 	August: Start of 2023-2024 regular season in EPL, Bundesliga, La Liga, Serie A
 	September 30: AFL Grand Final
 	October 1: Rugby League NRL Grand Final
 	October 5 - November 19: Cricket ODI World Cup
 	September 7: Start of 2023-24 NFL regular season
 	September 29: Start of 2023-24 MLB regular season
 	October 10: Start of 2023-24 NHL regular season
 	October 24: Start of 2023-24 NBA regular season





Special insight from PropellerAds:

What is also great about sports offers is that they are not limited by standard iGaming sites. Besides, there are plenty of affiliate programs available in the Fantasy Sports market — which is, by the way, forecast to increase by $9.84 billion by the end of 2023 in the USA.
A short note: fantasy sports is a game where you create a virtual team consisting of real players. The performance of these players on the real field brings their virtual twinks — your team members — a certain number of points.
Here is a flash of one Fantasy Sports case study we got from our partner:



Offer: Fantasy Sports App for US

Campaign Period: NFL season 2023

Traffic Type: PropellerAds Popunder

Platform: iOS

Results: more than 2 million relevant users and more than $7,000 in monthly revenue



So, seems it’s worth trying, right?

And, finally, sports always come along with iGaming — so you will most likely profit if you include a couple of casino offers in your advertising plan.

Extra: Example of creatives!


Trend 2: Utility Apps Offers
Utilities can be called an evergreen vertical. However, some of them have slight seasonality, too — for example, VPNs often go in step with iGaming. Thus, we can safely predict that autumn will bring an additional boost to VPN app offers, too — and might become a nice addition to your iGaming campaigns. 

Besides, as Max Stan, ZeyDoo Senior Marketing Manager, puts it:
"Cleaners will also be growing in 2023 — so it’s highly recommended to start testing them right now or later in autumn — the summer period might have some drop-off in conversions, while conversions tend to grow in September and later. For example, last autumn showed 9% more conversions related to summer campaigns for Utility apps."

Special insight from PropellerAds:

Thanks to Max, we can also show you some great offers to try out:





 	Jax VPN
 	Fast n Clean
 	AdBlock
 	Scanero - QR code scanner





Extra: Creatives example


Trend 3: eCommerce Offers 
Yes, we know that was pretty obvious — but eCommerce is one of the few verticals with clear seasonality. Not that marketplaces sell worse during summer — but the whole eCommerce niche, including its advertising part, depends on the sales periods. 

Autumn is a fruitful time for sales — and we recommend you think broader. Black Friday and Cyber Monday ARE great for your profits — but local holidays are also a lucrative thing! 
Here is a ready list of the biggest shopping events you should keep in mind this autumn:





 	October 31: Halloween (WW)
 	November 12: Singles’ Day (Southeast Asia)
 	November 17-20: El Buen Fin (Mexico)
 	November 21: Big Steam Sales (WW)
 	November 23: Thanksgiving Day (USA)
 	November 24: Black Friday (WW)
 	November 27: CyberMonday (WW)





Besides, you can find a certain advantage in the so-called ‘back-to-school’ and ‘back-to-college’ market. As you might guess, it’s related to special sales of study supplies, electronics, and school clothes. Don’t underestimate these trending products for affiliate marketing— only in America, there is an average of $257 spending per household on school clothing and accessories planned for 2023.

Special insight from PropellerAds:

All shopping events also make a perfect match with the Sweepstakes vertical. For example, here is a case study of one of our partners who ran a Sweeps offer during El Buen Fin last year:





 	Campaign period: Nov 15, 2022 – Nov 23, 2022
 	GEO: MX
 	Traffic type: PropellerAds Popunder
 	Leads: 4216
 	Profit: $1959.88
 	ROI: 50,47%





The offer’s flow was very simple: a pretty standard landing page in Spanish, two campaigns targeting Desktop and Mobile traffic, and extra monetization tools: ProPush tag and Backbutton. Later, our partner added one more campaign, separating Android users — and the final results were the following:



Impressions
Conversions
Profit
ROI


135,956
4,216
$1959.88
50,47%



Extra: Creative examples


Trend 4: Finance Apps Offers 
No, we don’t mean finance apps will suddenly become super-trendy this autumn. They already are — for example, Indian market statistics show that banking, payment, and personal finance apps grow by 28% from year to year.

So, this affiliate marketing trend is definitely here to stay — why not try it during the fruitful period when all budgets are rising? 

The Finance app vertical includes many app types — digital wallets, mobile banking, insurance, quick loans, and more. However, many affiliate marketers find their golden mines in trading and crypto trading offers. And, of course, such offers become growing affiliate marketing trends when the Bitcoin market cap passes another significant number. 
As some crypto experts predict, Bitcoin’s ROI will reach 20% this November — and if so, this will be another good sign to run traffic on some trading simulator or Bitcoin wallet.
Special insight from PropellerAds:

By the way, one of our partners shared his trading app campaign statistics for last autumn — which was pretty impressive! Here are some insights about his campaign you might want to use in yours:





 	Offer: A trading platform app
 	Conversion type: Cost-Per-Lead
 	Period: Autumn 2022
 	Ad format: PropellerAds Popunder
 	Bidding model: CPA Goal, SmartCPC
 	Optimization: Conversion tracking, whitelists for the most converting zones





And the results:



Month
Impressions
Conversions


09-2022
11 335 932
7 155


10-2022
23 156 729
5 112


11-2022
12 953 519
4 862



Extra: Creative example


To Sum Up
We bet this autumn will become a real harvest season for you — and, hopefully, our tips on the trending affiliate niches will contribute to it, too. PropellerAds traffic and smart tools will also become a great help for your profits — so you are welcome to join.